Adds Embedded Cluster lab (#346)
replicatedhq/replicated-field-labs: instruqt/delivering-as-an-appliance/04-using-the-configuration/assignment.md

  path: /home/replicant
- id: v1glcc2whytp
  title: Shell
  type: terminal
  hostname: shell
difficulty: basic
timelimit: 300
---

The configuration screen we built looks great, guides the customer through
their configuration, and helps make sure they set their configuration is set
up correctly.

The next step is to configure the application using the options
they provide. Values from the configuration are mapped to the Helm chart(s)
that make up your application using the `HelmChart` resource. The Admin
Console uses this resource to prepare the values passed to Helm when
installing or upgrading the chart.

Passing Configurations to Helm
==============================

We saw the `HelmChart` resource when we initially prepared the cluster. In that
section we specified a chart and version to install and explicitly provided no
values to the Helm command (`values: {}`). We're going to fix that now and
provide values based on the configuration the Admin Console collected.

### A Word on Templating

[Templating in the Admin Console](https://docs.replicated.com/reference/template-functions-about)
is a big topic and an in-depth treatment would take it's own lab (or three).

> I'm going to explain the basics that we need to use here, building on the

Reviewer: JK I found a few others and added suggestions for those too

    values:
      slack:
        mock: true
```

then the result will be:

```
slack:
  mock: true
```

whereas if you have `recursiveMerge: true`, then the result will be

```
  slack:
    botToken: xoxb-pretendthisisyourbottoken
    userToken: xoxp-pretendthisisyourusertoken
    mock: true
```

For SlackerNews, we use optional values to determine how to configure the
database. Since there are some database configurations that are always set in
the same way, we specify a recursive merge.

```yaml
  optionalValues:
    - when: '{{repl ConfigOptionEquals "deploy_postgres" "1"}}'
      recursiveMerge: true
      values:
        postgres:
          password: '{{repl ConfigOption "postgres_password" }}'

    - when: '{{repl ConfigOptionEquals "deploy_postgres" "0"}}'
      recursiveMerge: true
      values:
        postgres:
          uri: '{{repl ConfigOption "postgres_external_uri" }}'
```

Specifying Image Values
=======================

If you completed the [Protecting Your
Assets](https://play.instruqt.com/manage/replicated/tracks/protecting-your-assets)
lab, you worked through the configuration for the Replicated Proxy Service to

> secure access to your private images. When deploying the embedded cluster, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
secure access to your private images. When installing with Embedded Cluster, you
```

need to consider the proxy as well as the possibility of an airgap
installation. There are a few template functions to facilitate this. These
functions are part of the [config
context](https://docs.replicated.com/reference/template-functions-config-context)
within the Admin Console.

```yaml
    images:
      slackernews:
        pullSecret: repl{{ ImagePullSecretName }}
        repository: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryHost "proxy.replicated.com" }}/{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace (print "proxy/" (LicenseFieldValue "appSlug") "/ghcr.io/slackernews" ) }}/slackernews-web:1.0.17'
```

Let's break down these two values to understand why we need all this template

> logic (especially since you're default Helm values may already take the proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logic (especially since your default Helm values might already take the proxy
```

into account).

First, we set the `images.slackernewws.pullSecret` value to `repl{{ ImagePullSecretName }}`.

> This grabs the image pull secret created by the Admin Console and let's the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This grabs the image pull secret created by the Admin Console and lets the
```

> chart know to use it when pulling the SlackerNews image. In [Protecting You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chart know to use it when pulling the SlackerNews image. In [Protecting Your
```

Assets](https://play.instruqt.com/manage/replicated/tracks/protecting-your-assets),
you configured your own secret. In an online installation, the values in the

> secret will be identical. When your customer chooses and airgap installation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
secret will be identical. When your customer chooses an airgap installation,
```

they'll be different. The secret you configured will contain credentials for
the proxy, while the secret created by the Admin Console will contain credentials to the registry
inside the airgap.

> Likewise, the `LocalRegistryHost` and `LocalRegistryNamespace` function refer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Likewise, the `LocalRegistryHost` and `LocalRegistryNamespace` functions refer
```

to the registry inside the airgapped environment. Using the `HasLocalRegistry`
function, you can distinguish between the online scenario (where you provide
the proxy service URI) and the airgapped scenario (where the Admin Console
fills in the details).

Providing a Complete Set of Values
==================================

Like with the last step of the lab, there's a more robust set of values needed

> than just he ones we went through. To include the complete set of values in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than just the ones we went through. To include the complete set of values in
```

your release, move the file `complete-helmchart.yaml` in your home directory
into the `release` directory.

```shell
mv complete-helmchart.yaml release/slackernews-chart.yaml
```

Releasing an Update
===================

We now have a complete release of the SlackerNews application that a customer
can install. Let's release our update and move it through the release process.

Like our last release, we're going to bump the Helm chart version to keep the
versions aligned across all our install methods. Remember this is optional, so
if you feel funny bumping the chart version when you didn't change the chart
itself you can skip that part. In practice you'll usually be making changes to

> both the chart and the Replicated Embedded Cluste configuration in parallel so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both the chart and the Embedded Cluster configuration in parallel so
```
